Journal Your Thoughts 

Write down your thoughts and repeat them out loud. It may sound strange, but it has been proven to help!


More Tips For Beating Rumination 
1. Call a friend or family member 2. Draw 3. Exercise 4. Temporarily distract yourself with a video or movie 5. Question your own thoughts. Often times rumination will lead to self-blame for everything in life. Say something like, "I know I may be thinking these dark or anxious thoughts right now, but that doesn't mean they're true! I refuse to believe them."


Rumination? 
Rumination is the repetition of a thought, or string of thoughts. It can intensify other symptoms of depression and anxiety. Rumination promises solutions if a problem is thought about long enough or hard enough. Don't be tricked! When you find yourself ruminating, do one of the breathing exercises you find on this site.

Calming Breath - Counting 
Anxious? Take a long, deep breath. Count to five. Now as you exhale count the rest of the way to 10. Do as long as you can, up to 10 minutes.

Reframing Thoughts 
Often times anxiety can eat away at self esteem. Take two minutes right now to encourage yourself and reframe some negative thoughts into positive ones. An example of a negative thought would be, "I'm pathetic, I can't do anything". Reframe that thought into, "I'm having a hard day and that's okay. I know I'm a good and capable person, even if I don't believe it right now." Tip: Make sure to say it out loud!

Three Good Things 
Write down three good things that have happened to you today. This exercise has been proven to significantly improve happiness levels. You may be in a depressed state, making it very difficult to identify three good things. Keep it easy and simple. Did you eat today, get off the couch, or take a shower?Were you able to make it to work? Maybe you only had one panic attack today. All these are good things!

Physical Exercise - Science has spoken! 
Physical exercise is incredibly effective in treating a wide range of mental health illnesses. Any anaerobic activity done for 30-45 min, 3 times a week, for 4 weeks has been proven to greatly reduce the effects of both anxiety and depression. I know, you have no energy and can barely move. Just thinking about exercise makes you want to panic. That's okay! Just keep exercise in your mind for when you have a better day than usually. Here is a quick list of physical exercises you can do anywhere! Squats, walking, lunges, jump rope, HIIT.


Journal
Have you ever felt so helpless in your own thoughts that you cant even escape from?
I overthink. Probably too much.
It feels almost like a curse.
It would be so much better to learn not to care about things that you do not have control over because it is not fair to put yourself through so much pain and confusion.
When you decide to love so much and give so much of yourself to that one person is such a huge decision to make.
Hope this one is not a mistake but why does it feel like it is?


